Burn Season is an American alternative metal band from Jacksonville, Florida, formed in 2001. An early version of the group recorded some demos at Jacksonville Beach studio Music Factory with just Damien Starkey on lead vocal and guitar and Bobby Amaru on drums (with studio owner Michael Ray FitzGerald filling in on bass). The group then moved to Jacksonville's Hole of the Pigeon, where they recorded an impressive set of demos that snagged them immediate major-label interest. The first record executive who showed interest in Burn Season was Flawless Records' Fred Durst, lead vocalist of Limp Bizkit. This led to a strong "buzz" in the industry. The members decided to sign with Elektra Records in what was reputedly an obscenely large deal.
Burn Season went to work recording its debut album with renowned producers Bob Marlette and Tim Palmer -- yet before it was even released, the band was dropped, and its Elektra debut never saw the light of day.

Later, South Florida-based independent label Bieler Bros. Records signed the band. Bieler purchased the rights to four songs from Burn Season's unreleased Elektra debut and added eight new ones. After a lengthy delay, Burn Season released its self-titled debut on October 11, 2005. CEO Jason Bieler, stated: " This band clearly had the talent and the songs to be huge. As Elektra folded...this was a case of throwing the baby out with the bath water; decisions were made on budgets and interoffice politics, not on music. We know they're a great rock band and if it takes us three weeks or three years to break them, we're ready!"

The band was working on their new album, the title is unknown but two new songs can be heard in their purevolume.

On May 1, 2007, Damien Starkey posted a MySpace bulletin, discussing the group's disbanding: " I'm sorry to break the news to everyone, but we have officially broken up. After six years, two record deals, and over 40 recorded songs we feel that the band has run its course. All of us are still great friends and have no animosity within the group but have come to a point where it makes more sense to pursue other projects."

Also noted was that the final show was going to be on May 25, 2007, at the first venue the band ever played in Jacksonville, called Jack Rabbits.

Damien Starkey joined Adam Latiff, Paul Phillips (formerly of Puddle of Mudd), Brad Moxey, and Brad Stewart (formerly of Shinedown) to form another pulse-pounding group called Society Red. Songs of note include "Love and Hate", "Everything", "So Unhappy", "Welcome to the Show", "High Life" and "Chasing the Reason." Bobby Amaru formed his own band, Amaru. In 2010 Starkey joined multi-platinum rock band Puddle of Mudd as bassist. He said he would be continuing to make music with his two other projects, Burn Season and Society Red in his off time. In 2012 Bobby Amaru joined Saliva as its new singer.

Burn Season has released a new song entitled, "Out of Control." It was a completely new track on the release of their much-delayed Elektra album, now called "This Long Time Coming", along with another new track, "Fight", released in January 2011, although other songs on the album had previously been recorded. An EP titled "Sleepwalker" included six tracks was released in 2012, which included songs recorded as demos before the band's previous split. "The Truth", EP's single gained the band many more fans.